Use dragon souls as extra lives.  Just when you think you lost, turn the tide of battle with a stunning blast as you are revived from the power of a dragon soul.



This mod adds an extra lives system that uses Dragon Souls to revive the player's character. When the Dragonborn's health is low, the Dragonborn is revived to full Health, Magicka, and Stamina, and a magical blast paralyzes surrounding foes allowing the Dragonborn to turn the tide of battle. This power comes at the cost of a Dragon Soul. If the Dragonborn does not have any Dragon Souls, no revival will be triggered.


Requirements & Compatibility

This mod does require any other mods. No edits are made to existing game objects, and it should be compatible with all other mods.
Optional Requirement - SKSE and SKYUI for MCM


Recommended Mods

I recommend pairing this with my mod, Last Stand (https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/165424) (https://creations.bethesda.net/en/skyrim/details/0f051e36-a211-4ced-a398-e9ee496c81d9/Last_Stand), which adds damage resistance when health is low. That can help ensure that the revival effect occurs by reducing the likelihood that a hit will take the player's health from above the revival threshold down to 0.

You may also like to pair this with a mod that prevents killmoves on the player.


Installation

Nexus:
Download through Vortex or Manual Download
Enable the plugin file ImmortalDragonborn.esp and have the corresponding BSA file in your Data folder.

Bethesda Creations:
Download and enable the Creation


Uninstallation

PC:
If using SKSE and SKYUI, it is recommended to use the MCM to disable the mod before uninstalling. This helps to stop manager quests and remove spells before uninstalling.

Xbox:
While there is no access to MCM, there is no serious consequence to uninstalling. Data for the manager quest will remain in the save file as with any other mod that uses such quests. All other functionality of the mod will be stopped after the mod is uninstalled.


Mod Settings (Configurable with MCM)

Enable Immortal Dragonborn:
Enable/Disable Immortal Dragonborn. Recommended to use this to disable the mod before uninstalling
Default - Enabled


Enable Paralysis on Revive:
Enable/Disable the Mass Paralysis spell cast when revived
Default - Enabled


Activation Health Percentage:
Health Percentage at which revival will activate. Recommended 10% to match Avoid Death Perk
Default - 10%

Dragonsoul Cost:
Number of Dragon Souls it costs to revive
Default - 1

Versions

v1.0.0
Initial Release

v1.1.0
Added Dragon Soul Cost to MCM
Fixed manager quest restart when disabling and re-enabling mod