Weapons and armor can degrade in quality with use.

Equipment Degradation SKSE adds a feature where weapons and armor may degrade in quality with use. A weapon may be damaged when striking or parrying an attack while taking a hit can damage armor. Equipment degrades 1 tempering level when damaged.


Requirements

This mod has no requirements other than the base game


Compatibility

This mod does not make any edits to existing objects in the base game and should not conflict with any mod. Items added by Anniversary Edition and other mods can also work with this system.


Durability & Damage Chance

Damage occurs based on a random chance with any given hit. The durability does not degrade over repeated usage. Rather, items with higher durability have less of a chance to become damaged with a hit. Weapons and armor made from higher value materials have higher durability.

Being hit by a power attack increases the chance that armor and shields will be damaged by the hit.

Striking with power attacks does not directly increase the chance for a weapon to be damaged. Unfortunately I could not detect whether a strike was a with a regular or power attack. Instead, having low stamina increases the chance that your weapon will become damaged when striking. Therefore, if you are using power attacks, it becomes more likely your weapon will be damaged.


Weapon Durability Settings

Weapon Durability 1:
0.975 (2.5% Chance to become damaged with a hit)
Iron weapons
Long bow
Hunting bow

Weapon Durability 2:
0.98 (2% Chance to become damaged with a hit)
Steel weapons

Weapon Durability 3:
0.985 (1.5% Chance to become damaged with a hit)
Orcish weapons
Elven weapons

Weapon Durability 4:
0.99 (1% Chance to become damaged with a hit)
Dwarven weapons
Glass weapons

Weapon Durability 5:
0.995 (0.5% Chance to become damaged with a hit)
Ebony weapons
Dragonbone weapons
Any weapon using a new weapon material not in the base game


Armor Durability Settings

Armor Durability 1:
0.95 (5% Chance to become damaged when hit)
Hide armor
Fur armor
Iron armor

Armor Durability 2:
0.96 (4% Chance to become damaged when hit)
Leather armor
Steel armor
Stormcloak & Imperial armor

Armor Durability 3:
0.97 (3% Chance to become damaged when hit)
Orcish armor
Elven armor

Armor Durability 4:
0.98 (2% Chance to become damaged when hit)
Dwarven armor
Glass armor

Armor Durability 5:
0.99 (1% Chance to become damaged when hit)
Ebony armor
Dragonbone armor
Dragonscale armor
Any armor using a new armor material not in the base game
